### DESCRIPTION

The  iostat command is used for monitoring system input/output device loading by observing the time the devices are active in relation to their average transfer rates. The iostat command generates reports that can be used to change system configuration to better balance the input/output load between physical disks.

The first report generated by the iostat command provides statistics concerning the time since the system was booted, unless the -y option is used (in this case, this first report is omitted).  Each subsequent report covers the time since the previous report. All statistics are reported each time the iostat command is run. The report consists of a CPU header row followed by a row of CPU statistics. On multiprocessor systems, CPU statistics are calculated system-wide as averages among all processors. A device header row is displayed followed by a line of statistics for each device that is configured.

The interval parameter specifies the amount of time in seconds between each report. The first report contains statistics for the time since system startup (boot), unless the -y option is used (in this case, this report is omitted).  Each subsequent report  contains  statistics  collected  during  the interval since the previous report. The count parameter can be specified in conjunction with the interval parameter. If the count parameter is specified, the value of count determines the number of reports generated at interval seconds apart. If the interval parameter is specified without the count parameter, the iostat command generates reports continuously.
```
	   -d     Display the device utilization report.
       -x     Display extended statistics.
       -t     Print the time for each report displayed. The timestamp format may depend on the value of the S_TIME_FORMAT environment variable (see below).
       -m     Display statistics in megabytes per second.
       -k     Display statistics in kilobytes per second.
       -c     Display the CPU utilization report.
```
**EXAMPLES**
```     
       iostat
              Display a single history since boot report for all CPU and Devices.

       iostat -d 2
              Display a continuous device report at two second intervals.

       iostat -d 2 6
              Display six reports at two second intervals for all devices.

       iostat -x sda sdb 2 6
              Display six reports of extended statistics at two second intervals for devices sda and sdb.

       iostat -p sda 2 6
              Display six reports at two second intervals for device sda and all its partitions (sda1, etc.)
```
```
       iostat -xdct
       iostat -xdctm
```
